What is Linux?

Linux is a free and open source operating system like windows and MacOS. There are different types of flavors of it like CentOS, Redhat and many more. 


 Which are the Linux Directory Commands?
 cd, pwd, mkdir, ls, and rm are linux directory commands

 Which are the different modes of vi editor?
 insert and command mode are the different modes of vi editor

 Why is the tar/zip command used?
 tar/zip commands are used to compress and unzip the directories

 How to copy a file in Linux?
 you can copy a file by using cp command like cp filename path where you want to copy

 How to rename a file in Linux?
 rename oldname newname

 How to write the output of a command to a file?
 command >> filename

 Name 3 or more Cloud providers?
 1. AWS
 2. Microsoft Azure
 3. Google cloud

   Explain the following commands:
   pwd Command
   shows the current working directory

   mkdir
   Make directory

   rmdir 
   remove directory

   ls 
   List all files

   cd 
   change directory

   touch 
   create a file

   rm
   remove a file

   rm -rf
   remove all the files inside a direcotory 

   mv
   move directory from one path to different or even rename the name of the directory/file

   cp
   copy a file

   tail
   it displays last 10 lines of a file

   more
   it displays all the content from a large file

   useradd
   add a user in the system

   passwd
   set and reset password of the users

   chgrp
   change the group for a user

   sudo
   super user un the system or super doers

   grep
   used for filter

   sed
   stream editor which is used to edit files using regular expressions

   find
   search files/directoriues in the system

   uniq
   used for sorting list where all the words only occur once

   ssh
   remote connection through ssh protocol
   
   explain difference between following commands:
   grep vs sed
   grep is used for filter purpose like getting certail output from a files where as sed is used for finding and making changes of it

   cp vs mv
   cp is used to change name of the file where as mv is used for changing name and also moving the file to different directory

   tail vs tail -f
   tail will show the content of last 10 lines where as tail -f will append output as the files goes

   rm -rf vs rmdir
   rm -rf will remove direcories with files inside them where as rmdir will only delete empty directory

   head vs tail
   head will display first 10 lines where as tail will display last 10 lines
  
What is the difference between SSH and RDP
ssh is remote into systen ssh protocol and you only has asscess to command line shell where as RDP is remote desktop and will have access to GUI version of the systems too which means you have fill access to a OS

Which AWS service would be used to create an automated process to extract data, transform/clean the data and load it to the target system?
AWS glue

Which AWS service would be used to visualize data present in an RDS database?
Amazon QuickSight


Explain the following in AWS:
Security Groups
it acts as a virtual firewall for your EC2 instances to control incoming and outgoing traffic

Private Keys
private keys are used to prove your credentials when connecting to aws intences

Glue
aws glue is a cloud service that prepares data for analusis through automated extract transform and load processes.

Athena
Athena helps to analyze unstructured, semi-structured, and structured data stored in S3 bucked

AWS MQ
It is a managed message broker service that makes it easy to migrate in the cloud. it allows software applications and components to communicate to each other

Quicksight
It is a tool used to build visualization, perform analysis and get business insights from the data

Kinesis
It makes easy to securely streams video streaming services from connected to aws

Opensearch
IT is a aws-managed service that lets you run and scale opensearch clusters without managing and monitoring them

Lakeformation
it is a centtralized and secured repository that stored all data

step function
It is a virtual workfolow service that helps developers to build applications and automate process